340-Project
=====
Problem Statement
The ISAT major is such a diverse major that it is often difficult to figure out what classes to take, where we can get help if needed in a class, know if you have made the requirements to be in an ISAT major, and what future careers people that have graduated from an ISAT major have gotten. The website that we would like to create incorporates all of this along with a location where you can plug in your classes to see if you will be able to graduate on time due to the large number of people that come into the ISAT major as sophomores and juniors. This website will contain more in depth descriptions for the sectors along with the 400 level classes which will ease the decision in which path to take along with what classes to take. With the help of Paul Henriksen and our academic advisor, the site will also include what career paths have been taken before with the specific concentrations along with resume help and packets. This will improve our alumni network and will better prepare the ISAT students for future internships and careers. This website will also include information for the ISAT Honor Society and when the tutoring hours are and class location for the week so students are easily able to seek help if need be. This website is meant to be the go to place for any ISAT questions and help to better specify what one wants to do with an ISAT major. 


Ricky Rizzo
ISAT 340
Social Context Analysis

	ISAT is a tricky major to have a firm grasp on. With a bored range of concentrations and sectors, there are endless possibilities as to what path a student can follow. The current ISAT program website does not do a good enough job of describing the major, the requirements, and lacks explanations and course descriptions. The program claims to have a wide alumni network, however it is not easily accessed. Our goal is to build a website that will improve upon these issues.
	This new website would be a tremendous help in scheduling classes. Having a road map through ISAT displayed for you would allow students to have more free time, by allowing them to access information that would previously require a meeting with an advisor. 
Course guides would also improve upon the number of students who would graduate on time. With many students transferring into the major their Junior or Senior year, the possibility of graduating from the ISAT program while only doing four years of undergrad becomes less and less likely. The website might give students a better chance at graduating on time. Many students end up completing some of the requirements of the ISAT department with classes like statistics as MATH220 but end up taking ISAT251 anyways. The new and improved website would avoid that ambiguity, leading to fewer students taking unnecessary classes.  With the ability to display exactly what courses and requirements are needed of each student the JMU’s four year graduation rates would increase. The ability to graduate in four years would mean students would average paying less tuition to receive an undergraduate degree and hopefully have fewer loans when coming out of school.
ISAT’s alumni network is a largely untapped resource to many students. Alumni of the ISAT program have been employed in countless industries across America and many have even gone on to receive graduate degrees. With the development of this website, JMU students will be able to effectively contact and interact with these alumni. This could lead to more students being able to explore their opportunities and employment objectives after school, and being able to receive recommendations as to what courses might be beneficial for future employment. This might produce students who are better prepared for the workplace after school.



Ricky Rizzo
Scenarios

	Garret is a second year student at JMU. He has been studying business for two semesters now but has found out that it is not for him. He has heard great things about the ISAT program and they have sparked his interest. He decides to take a look at the new ISAT course guide. He logs onto the website and selects the “Transferring? Find Your Way” function. Garrett is asked to enter in each of the individual courses he has already taken and passed at JMU. Once entered, Garret will be displayed with a list of prerequisite courses that all ISAT majors must take, however repeats of the same course matter are removed (Such as MATH220 and ISAT251). With this function he is shown a list of the various concentrations and sectors he will be exploring in ISAT. At the top of the page there is a blurb written on how the ISAT program works with choosing three sectors and a concentration in which you will do a senior project. Energy sparks his interest so he selects the energy concentration tab. He is then brought to a page that displays what courses he will need to take, when to take them, and a detailed course description of what he will be learning in each one. 

